Closed: Incentives for Medium- and Heavy-Duty Zero-Emission Vehicles
Skip to main content
Skip to "About this site"
Language selection
WxT Language switcher
Français fr
/
Gouvernement du Canada
Search this site
Customize your search
tc.canada.ca canada.ca
Search
Menu
Main Menu
Home
Jobs and the workplace
Immigration and citizenship
Travel and tourism
Business and industry
Health
Benefits
Health – More
Taxes
Environment and natural resources
National security and defence
Culture, history and sport
Policing, justice and emergencies
Transport and infrastructure
Canada and the world
Money and finances
Science and innovation
You are here
Canada.ca
Transport Canada
Road transportation
Innovative technologies
Electric vehicles
Closed: Incentives for Medium- and Heavy-Duty Zero-Emission Vehicles
Status: Closed
You can no longer apply to this program.
The iMHZEV Program has ended. The information on this page is for reference only.
The Government of Canada launched the Incentives for Medium- and Heavy-Duty Zero-Emission Vehicles (iMHZEV) Program in July 2022. The iMHZEV Program provided incentives of up to $200,000. Many different makes and models of eligible zero-emission vehicles were available to eligible organizations to buy or lease (12 months or more).
Overview
To have been eligible under the iMHZEV Program, a vehicle had to be a zero-emission vehicle (in other words, they had the ability to produce no tailpipe emissions). The program considered battery-electric, plug-in hybrid electric and hydrogen fuel cell to be zero-emission vehicles. To be considered a medium or heavy-duty vehicle, the vehicle must have had a gross weight rating greater than 8,500 lbs. The program closed on March 31, 2026.
iMHZEV program statistics
The Open Government Portal has statistics on the Incentives for Medium- and Heavy-duty Zero-Emission Vehicles (iMHZEV) Program that you can download and use.
iMHZEV Program data is available in two formats: a Comma-Separated Values (CSV) file format and an OpenDocument Spreadsheet (ODS) format. These formats will work with most spreadsheet software.
Contact us
If you have any questions, please email IMHZEVProgram-ProgrammeIVMLZE@tc.gc.ca or call our toll-free number at 1-800-O-Canada.
Date modified:
2024-07-05
About this site
Transport Canada
Contact us
Job opportunities
Government of Canada
All contacts
Departments and agencies
About government
Themes and topics
Jobs
Immigration and citizenship
Travel and tourism
Business
Benefits
Health
Taxes
Environment and natural resources
National security and defence
Culture, history and sport
Policing, justice and emergencies
Transport and infrastructure
Canada and the world
Money and finances
Science and innovation
Indigenous Peoples
Veterans and military
Youth
Manage life events
Brand
Social media
Mobile applications
About Canada.ca
Terms and conditions
Privacy
Top of Page