Amount of the financial assistance for a new electric vehicle | Gouvernement du Québec
Français
Contact us
-->
Home
Transports
Electric transportation
Financial assistance for electric vehicles
New electric vehicle
Amount of the financial assistance
New electric vehicle
Press Escape key to exit menu
New electric vehicle
Amount of the financial assistance
Current page
Eligible new vehicles
Conditions to be met
Vehicle fleet
How to proceed
Register for online services
Obtain the rebate through your dealer
Directly request the financial assistance
Amount of the financial assistance for a new electric vehicle
In 2026, you can obtain up to $2,000 of Québec government financial assistance when you purchase an eligible new electric vehicle under the Roulez vert program.
Amount of the assistance by vehicle type
The amount of the government rebate to purchase or lease an eligible new electric vehicle under the program varies according to the type of vehicle.
In 2026, the maximum amount is:
$2,000 for a fully electric vehicle;
$1,000 or $500 for a plug-in hybrid vehicle;
$2,000 for a hydrogen-powered (fuel cell) vehicle;
$500 for an electric motorcycle.
Since 2025, electric scooters (limited-speed motorcycles) are no longer eligible for a government subsidy.
Consult the detailed list of new electric vehicles eligible for the Roulez vert program to determine the exact amount of the rebates when purchasing or leasing vehicles.
Reduction in financial assistance amounts
The financial assistance amounts granted for electric vehicles are gradually being reduced.
Check the amounts planned for 2026. To learn more
Calculation of the applicable taxes
The applicable taxes are calculated on the vehicle’s price before the government rebate is applied.
Registration date
Regardless of the date on which the vehicle is purchased or ordered, it is the date on which the vehicle is registered in your name that is considered to verify the vehicle’s eligibility and the amount of the financial assistance depending on the program-related conditions then in force.
Vehicles registered between February 1 to March 31, 2025 —during the temporary suspension of the program—are not be eligible for financial assistance.
Payment of the financial assistance
If you do business with a dealership , it can offer to apply the government rebate to your purchase or long-term lease contract. You will not have to wait to obtain the financial assistance.
If you wish to apply personally or your dealer is unable to apply the financial assistance to your purchase or lease contract, you can directly claim the financial assistance through the program’s online services. You will receive the funds several weeks after your application is approved.
Dealer administration fees
Your dealer should not demand administration fees to apply the government rebate to your purchase or leasing contract.
You can refuse your dealer’s application of the rebate and submit your application for financial assistance using our online services.
Applicable amounts
The Québec government can modify the conditions governing the Roulez vert program and the amounts of the financial assistance.
To learn more, consult the About the Roulez vert program section.
Previous
Program overview
Next
Eligible new vehicles
Last update:
January 14, 2026
Page evaluation
Your feedback has been submitted. Thank you for helping us make Québec.ca better.
Was the information on this page helpful?
Please complete the reCAPTCHA verification.
Was the information on this page helpful?
Yes The information was helpful. Please provide more details.
No The information was not helpful. Please provide more details.
Report a problem
Your feedback has been submitted. Thank you for helping us make Québec.ca better.
Fields marked with * are required
Why was this information unhelpful? *
I couldn’t find what I was looking for
The information is unclear
The information is outdated, incorrect or incomplete
Other
You must select an option
Please provide more details *
Do not include any personal information (such as your Social Insurance Number [SIN], email address, phone number or mailing address). Your comments will be used to improve Québec.ca and may be used for statistical purposes. Please note that we will not be able to provide individual responses.
What issue are you experiencing? *
There is a problem with the page display
There is a broken or outdated link
There is a spelling or grammar error
There is a problem with the online service
Other
You must select an option
Describe the issue *
Do not include any personal information (such as your Social Insurance Number [SIN], email address, phone number or mailing address). Your comments will be used to improve Québec.ca and may be used for statistical purposes. Please note that we will not be able to provide individual responses.
Why was the information useful?
Content is clear and complete
Information is up to date
Information and documents are easy to access
Other
Would you like to add any details?
Do not include any personal information (such as your Social Insurance Number [SIN], email address, phone number or mailing address). Your comments will be used to improve Québec.ca and may be used for statistical purposes. Please note that we will not be able to provide individual responses.
Please describe the problem
Don&#039;t fill this field!
Gouvernement du Québec
Footer navigation | Québec.ca
Information and services
Agriculture, environment and natural resources
Culture
Education
Employment
Businesses
Family and support for individuals
Finance, income and other taxes
Housing and Territory
Immigration
Justice and civil status
Health
Public safety and Emergencies
Tourism and recreation
Transports
Government
Departments and agencies
Services Québec
Work in government
Information feed
Laws and regulations
Copyright and request for authorization
How to reach us
General information
Service offices
Follow us
Accessibility
Sitemap
Access to information
Privacy policy
Who can consult this page