Skip to main content
Skip to "About this site"
Switch to basic HTML version
Language selection
WxT Language switcher
Français
/ Gouvernement du Canada
Search this site
 
Customize your search
tc.canada.ca
canada.ca
 
Search
Menu
MAIN
MENU 
You are here
Canada.ca  Transport Canada  Road transportation  Innovative technologies  Electric vehicles  Electric Vehicle Affordability Program (EVAP)
Electric Vehicle Affordability Program: Overview
On this page
About the incentives
Incentives for leased vehicles
Levels of incentives
Incentive limits
Eligibility criteria
How to get the incentive
Information for carsharing companies
About the incentives

The Electric Vehicle Affordability Program (EVAP) offers point-of-sale incentives for Canadians, Canadian organizations and businesses who buy or lease an eligible electric vehicle. Incentives are available to Canadians who buy or lease (12 months or more) new eligible electric vehicles between February 16, 2026, and March 31, 2031, or earlier if available funding is fully used.

Incentives for leased vehicles

The incentive amount depends on the length of the lease. Only leases of 12+ months are eligible for an incentive. If the lease is 48 months or more, the full incentive amount will be issued. If the lease is shorter, the incentive will be prorated (adjusted) based on the length of the lease.

Levels of incentives

There are two levels of incentives that will decrease over the program’s 5-year lifespan:

battery electric vehicles and hydrogen fuel cell vehicles are eligible for up to $5,000
plug-in hybrid electric vehicles are eligible for up to $2,500

Between 2026 and 2031, incentive amounts will gradually decrease for all eligible vehicle types. During this period, incentives for battery-electric and fuel cell electric vehicles will decrease from up to $5,000 to up to $2,000, and incentives for plug-in hybrid vehicles will decrease from up to $2,500 to up to $1,000, as detailed in the table below:

Type of vehicle	2026	2027	2028	2029	2030	2031
Battery-electric and fuel cell electric vehicles	$5,000	$4,000	$3,000	$3,000	$2,000	$2,000
Plug-in hybrid vehicles	$2,500	$2,000	$1,500	$1,500	$1,000	$1,000

Note: The incentive amount is based on the date the dealership or authorized seller submits the eligibility assessment through the program portal. As incentive levels decrease over time, the amount you receive will depend on when the assessment is submitted, not the date you bought or leased the vehicle.

Incentive limits

There are different limits for different recipients:

Individuals can receive 1 EVAP incentive over the 5-year program
Organizations and businesses can receive up to 10 EVAP incentives over the 5-year program. Organizations and businesses that are owned by the same people (except when the ownership comes from being a publicly traded company) will be treated as one single organization. Together, they can use the program to buy 10 vehicles in total. This limit applies to the whole organization, not just to one department or division
Provincial, territorial and municipal governments can receive up to 10 EVAP incentives over the 5-year program
Eligible carsharing companies approved by Transport Canada can receive up to 50 EVAP incentives per calendar year

Transport Canada closely monitors how incentives are used and will recover the incentive amount from the dealership or authorized seller if it’s determined that a person or business:

didn’t meet the eligibility rules
received more incentives than allowed, or
gave false or misleading information

Under the Attestation Form (PDF, 193 KB), the recipient has agreed to reimburse the dealership or authorized seller, which can take steps to get the money back.

Eligibility criteria

To be eligible for an incentive, a vehicle must:

be bought or leased on or after February 16, 2026 (transactions initiated prior to February 16, 2026, do not qualify for an incentive, regardless of the delivery date)
have a final transaction value of $50,000 or less, unless it’s made in Canada, then there’s no cap
be made in Canada or in countries that have a free-trade agreement with Canada
be a light-duty vehicle (under 8,500 pounds)
meet all of Canada’s Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
be highway-capable (no low-speed vehicles) and meant for use on public roads
have at least 4 functioning wheels, and
be a new vehicle, meaning the vehicle is being registered for the first time
Demonstrator vehicles with an odometer with less than 10,000 km are eligible
How to get the incentive

The incentive will be applied at the point-of-sale by a dealership or authorized seller once they have confirmed both you and the vehicle qualify.

To check if you qualify, the dealership or the authorized seller will have you complete the Consumer Consent Form (PDF, 220 KB), and then, they will send it to Transport Canada.

If you qualify, you will need to review and sign the Attestation Form (PDF, 193 KB). After that, the incentive will be applied directly to your bill of sale or lease agreement.

The dealership or authorized seller will apply taxes and fees first, then apply the incentive.

The dealership or authorized seller must submit the required documents to be reimbursed. Consumers can’t apply to get the incentive themselves. Only enrolled dealerships and authorized sellers can do that.

Information for carsharing companies

To be eligible under the EVAP, a carsharing company must:

be a non-profit or for-profit organization, registered as a carsharing company in Canada with its own business number
offer a membership or subscription-based program, where members or subscribers have 24/7 self-service access to a fleet for use at regular intervals (usually with a per-minute or per-hour fee), and
offer the service to all Canadians and Canadian residents (and not just to specific groups) and have a website or application for enrolment/registration

To apply to be considered an eligible carsharing company under the EVAP, please email TC.EVaffordability-abordabiliteVE.TC@tc.gc.ca.

Only carsharing companies approved by Transport Canada can receive up to 50 incentives per calendar year for eligible transactions bought or leased on or after February 16, 2026. Transport Canada decides who qualifies and can also choose to end or change a company’s eligibility at any time.

Date modified: 2026-09-10
Was this page helpful? 
Yes No
About this site
Transport Canada
Contact us
Job opportunities
Government of Canada
All contacts
Departments and agencies
About government
Themes and topics
Jobs
Immigration and citizenship
Travel and tourism
Business
Benefits
Health
Taxes
Environment and natural resources
National security and defence
Culture, history and sport
Policing, justice and emergencies
Transport and infrastructure
Canada and the world
Money and finances
Science and innovation
Indigenous Peoples
Veterans and military
Youth
Manage life events
Brand
Social media  Mobile applications  About Canada.ca  Terms and conditions  Privacy
 